All right.
So what we have now then is the shape that
we're looking for.
Now we can start to think about exactly
how wide do we want these columns,
and how tall do we want these rows.
And the best way to go about doing this
is to go get in there with some kind of
pixel based ruler.
And go measure the dimensions
of all of these squares.
It is really tedious and
I'm very happy to tell you,
you do not have to do that I
have done that work for you.
So, now we'll go back and add that
information that's going to describe
exactly how big our and wide our
columns are, and how tall our rows are.
And then the syntax
that we use to do that,
it's going to go up here on our wrapper.
So on the grid container on the parent,
it's gonna go right after we have
our display grid, we have our gap.
And we can now add to this,
how many columns are we gonna have?
This is grid hyphen template.
Hyphen columns.
So, we're telling grid exactly how many
columns, that we're going to have here.
Usually when people write this type
of code, they specify this first.
I wanted to put the emphasis
on the numbers first.
So, we did that, now we're coming back and
entering how many columns we have here.
So as my measurements have deduced.
And I've done this in pixels because
we want these to match up as closely as
possible to the painting.
These numbers are 124 pixels,
376 pixels, and 42 pixels.
Two pixels.
So you can just using this
grid template columns syntax,
you can line up however many
dimensions that you want.
For however many columns that you want and
grid will do this
particular type of layout.
So you can have different widths for
those columns,
you can have different units of measure
for these columns if you wanted.
Here I've used all pixels,
but I could have mixed it up,
I could have done some rems,
I could have done some percent's,
I could have done ems and there's a couple
of other units we'll talk about later.
So that gets us a little bit closer
in terms of our rows in such or
in terms of our columns and such, so
now we can do the same thing with our rows
grid hyphen template hyphen rows and
the numbers here would be 170 pixels.
210 pixels, 61 pixels, and 61 pixels.
The line up here isn't exactly perfect.
Remember that this started as a painting
done by a human, not by a robot.
And so
Mondrian has things just slightly off.
But we get pretty close to
the painting layout here.
So, as you see now we have all of our
cells more or less on top of each other.
You'll do notice that we have a bit of
a gap over here to the side of literacy,
and that is because that
is the way gaps work.
So, we've got gaps all
around just like that.
And now we can start to fill in these
cells with the appropriate colors.
So the easiest way to do this,
is the following here right again
on the wrapper I'm gonna set
a background color of black which
will make it very hard to see
what we're doing exactly, but
that will wind up filling in the grid gap
area, with the black lines in between.
And then Now what we need
to do is the following.
Here on our div, we can get rid
of this opacity part of this.
So that makes things pop
out quite a bit more.
And then all we need to do is
assign our various colors.
So here and letter C which is the big
red box, our background color.
Using an eyedropper tool,
I determine the exact state of red.
This is de 271d, so
that'll give us a big red box, yes.
>> The gap automatically adds to
all sides or all after the first,
I don't see a gap on the far left.
>> Yes.
All after the first,
exactly as you see here.
Yep.
And then here for letter d,
we have a background color
Of 015 CA zero.
If you want of course you can
just use the red blue and yellow.
That's okay too.
And then down here in letter g
we have a background color of e,
c d, b, 6b, that is the shade of yellow.
And then the last little bit of
weirdness that you see here is from our
background image.
We can get rid of that.
So that's up here on our wrapper
around line number five,
get rid of that background.
And we have something approximating
the painting here by Mondrian.
All right, that is something you would
not be able to do with flexbox, for sure.
Any questions on this
basic basics of grid, and
how this starts to work
in terms of layout.
Any questions?
>> Can that last gap be reset,
like with margin and last child.
I don't think you can use last
child specifically with the gap but
you could try,
the gap gets set on the parent, so
it's on the wrapper not
on the individual cell.
So, I'm not sure that is necessarily
going to work, good idea though.